+++
title = 'Common Sense'
date = 2025-03-29T15:11:19-06:00
draft = true
+++
[back](../bloglist)

Both Psychology and Philosophy suffer from the same dire criticism from
the mainstream; that is that the revelations of each particular study
just reaffirm *"common sense." *This dreaded *common sense* is the bane
of both Behavioral Psychologists and Continental Philosophers. These two
are similar in more than just their criticism. Both have a habit of \\

gestalt conclusions. This is why summarization of either topic results
in the loss of substance. If we conclude that x→y, what is missing is
the implications and edge cases. x→y, but not* just* y, and y¬→x .* *The
*common sense *isn't the result, it's what is in between the lines.

![Dunning-Kruger Effect](https://onlinepethealth.com/wp-content/uploads/2022/11/Dunning-Kruger-Graph-2-004.jpg){width="3.1209in"
height="2.3398in"}

This image is a diagram of the Dunning-Kruger Effect, a somewhat silly
representation of our knowledge compared to our perceived knowledge. The
*common sense* is the same, just with nuance. Both a child and a
Professor of Psychology could tell you that reward encourages behavior
while, punishment discourages behavior. This is the core and immediate
inquiry of behavioral psychology. Yet it is somehow common knowledge. It
can be noticed and learned without study. It's what is "between the
lines." But what are the lines? Well the professor may ask, *"what
behavior? What reward/punishment? How is it administered? Does the
subject matter in the results?" *These are simply not questions asked by
intuition. To the layman the conclusion matters inasmuch as it
practically serves him. While the Professor is concerned with the
questions that follow the conclusion.

![](/static/images/law.webp)

{width="2.9972in" height="2.2457in"} 

This is the format of a common internet joke where
the layman and the expert believe the same implicit meaning of a topic,
despite their difference in knowledge. The text is about morals and
laws. In[]{#anchor} Kohlberg's moral development he declares 3 types of
moral growth. Pre-conventional, conventional, and post-conventional.
These are the characters in the image. The first acts out of fear of
punishment. This is why he doesn't understand laws. They exist only as
limiting guidelines, followed only in order to avoid harm. The second
abides only to laws, not dictating morality for himself. This, still, is
not virtuous. It is adhering to a social code and operated similarly out
of fear. The last has set his own morals, and has decided that laws do
not abide by his own moral standards. Again, the first and last agree
fully, with nuance. But the second could have a higher IQ partner who
has made his own morals, but laws still serve to unify them, making them
good for social harmony. Any of the implicit definitions can be
caparisoned as the high IQ opinion, with nuance.

This effect is not seen in STEM fields. There is very little to intuit,
because there is very little to guess. x→y exists wholistically in
isolation. It's implications are similarly declarative. Most, if not all
of our scientific knowledge is built brick by brick, without much wiggle
room for intuition. Whereas an illiterate farmer may come to the same
conclusion as Nietzsche, he will not come to the same conclusion as
Richard Feynman.\
Another Philosophical example would be Kant's categorical imperative. A
layman could summarize Kant's vast writings into the Golden Rule. *If
everyone did it, would it be okay? *You could say this is a *common
sense *conclusion for ethics. But, again, what is between the lines?
"What do other people have to do with what is right? What does *okay*
really mean? What are the ramifications of this?" My point here is that
the Gestalt nature of a topic allows effective use of unknowledgeable
intuition.

\
\
