+++
title = 'Problem_with_linux'
date = 2025-02-14T19:21:02-07:00
draft = true
+++
# The problem with powerusers


[back](../bloglist)



[For my thoughts on
distributions](../distro)



------------------------------------------------------------------------

There is a trend in the GNU/Linux world that likely prevail for the rest
of time. Windows poweruser has issue with windows, windows poweruser
tries linux, windows poweruser gets frustrated, windows poweruser goes
back to windows. It is a tale as old as time. If you happen to be a
Linux user, you probably used to be a Windows poweruser. So whats the
difference between fail and success?

The \"skill cap\" for Windows is certianly lower than that of Linux.
Once you\'re using Windows Debloat, using complex software, pirating
video games, and maybe doing some batch scripting, you\'re at the peak
of what you can do with Windows.

I think what would be most helpful is talking to and about Windows users
understanding this. Know that many of their problems are going to be
growing pains. Try to translate their knowledge.

There are 3 main reasons people use linux.

1.  Freedom
2.  FREEdom
3.  Necessity

Free as in free beer, free as in freedom. Freedom is the most likely
one. People switching for the merits of Linux. These are almost always
powerusers. Those concerned with price are probably also tech savvy, but
they could not be. For example, latin america and india loves linux
because the USD conversion to buy Windows or MacOS is crazy. Necessity
is in reference to the computers limits. For servers, Linux is really
the only option. Same situation for very low performance machines. The
latter two are very likely to stick with Linux. It is much more worth it
for them. The first would be savvy enough to re-pirate Windows in an
afternoon.
